ONCE there were four children whose names were Peter,
Susan, Edmund and Lucy. This story is about something
that happened to them when they were sent away from
London during the war because of the air-raids. They were
sent to the house of an old Professor who lived in the heart of the
country, ten miles from the nearest railway station and two miles from
the nearest post office. He had no wife and he lived in a very large
house with a housekeeper called Mrs Macready and three servants.
(Their names were Ivy, Margaret and Betty, but they do not come into
the story much.) He himself was a very old man with shaggy white
hair which grew over most of his face as well as on his head, and they
liked him almost at once; but on the first evening when he came out
to meet them at the front door he was so odd-looking that Lucy (who
was the youngest) was a little afraid of him, and Edmund (who was
the next youngest) wanted to laugh and had to keep on pretending he
was blowing his nose to hide it.

As soon as they had said good night to the Professor and gone
upstairs on the first night, the boys came into the girls’ room and they
all talked it over.

“We’ve fallen on our feet and no mistake,” said Peter. “This is going
to be perfectly splendid. That old chap will let us do anything we like.”

“I think he’s an old dear,” said Susan.

“Oh, come off it!” said Edmund, who was tired and pretending not
to be tired, which always made him bad-tempered. “Don’t go on
talking like that.”
“Like what?” said Susan; “and anyway, it’s time you were in bed.”
“Trying to talk like Mother,” said Edmund. “And who are you to say
when I’m to go to bed? Go to bed yourself.”
“Hadn’t we all better go to bed?” said Lucy. “There’s sure to be a row
if we’re heard talking here.”
“No there won’t,” said Peter. “I tell you this is the sort of house where
no one’s going to mind what we do. Anyway, they won’t hear us. It’s
about ten minutes’ walk from here down to that dining-room, and any
amount of stairs and passages in between.”
“What’s that noise?” said Lucy suddenly. It was a far larger house
than she had ever been in before and the thought of all those long
passages and rows of doors leading into empty rooms was beginning
to make her feel a little creepy.
